# zircon_petrochro_timeseries
Plotting timeseries of zircon trace element

Detrital zircons U-Pb dating and trace element composition were compiled from 103 detrital rock samples from various continents and cratons (e.g., Yilgarn, Jack Hills in Australia, White Sea, Urals, Tibet, Himalaya, S. China, Yangtze River, Danube River, India, Indochina in Eurasia, Wyoming, Gulf of Mexico, Acasta in N. America, Brazilian shield in S. America, Antarctica; most of the data were compiled in Balica et al., 2020 to which were added several references published since then. Raw data and associated references can be found in the Supplementary Material X). We filtered out metamorphic zircons based on zircon Th/U ratios (n = 6305 data after filtering; 16% of zircon data were rejected). These zircons are expected to have formed in magmatic or high-grade granulitic conditions, derived from intermediate to felsic rocks (with median Th/U value at 0.6; see Rubato et al., 2002; Kirkland et al., 2015). The timeseries is built using a similar bootstrap approach as in Dhuime et al. (2012). In this study, a 500 Ma wide rolling window was used (with a 20 Ma step rolling through the data) as it allows to highlight major and long-term change in zircon signature. A bootstrap analysis is performed on data included in each time window, extracting basic statistics including median value, 99.5% and 0.5% percentile boundary values, average value, standard deviation at each iteration (n of iterations = 500). The peak of the distribution of bootstrapped median data and 1 and 3 sigma s.d. range are calculated and displayed as a timeseries in figure 2. The python script used for this statistical treatment is available in the Supplementary Material X
Balica, C., Ducea, M. N., Gehrels, G. E., Kirk, J., Roban, R. D., Luffi, P., Chapman, J.B., Triantafyllou, A., Guo, J., Stoica, A.M., Ruiz, J., Balintoni, I., Profeta, L., Hoffman, D. & Petrescu, L. (2020). A zircon petrochronologic view on granitoids and continental evolution. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 531, 116005. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsl.2019.116005 
Dhuime, B., Hawkesworth, C. J., Cawood, P. A., & Storey, C. D. (2012). A change in the geodynamics of continental growth 3 billion years ago. Science, 335(6074), 1334-1336. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1216066 
Kirkland, C. L., Smithies, R. H., Taylor, R. J. M., Evans, N., & McDonald, B. (2015). Zircon Th/U ratios in magmatic environs. Lithos, 212, 397-414. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lithos.2014.11.021
Rubatto, D. (2002). Zircon trace element geochemistry: partitioning with garnet and the link between U–Pb ages and metamorphism. Chemical geology, 184(1-2), 123-138. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0009-2541(01)00355-2 
